That was really incredible.
I was amazed.
I mean, great response for the program, obviously, but they were just incredible.
Just really, really wonderful people.
I think they enjoyed spending the time with the students, and it was really interesting to be able to try to, for Wiley, to be able to manage that kind of
you know, having those kinds of celebrities on campus.
But that was a pretty good year to have a sitting vice president on campus and two former presidents on campus.
Any other celebrities during that year that you remember?
Let's see.
I was trying to remember some of the concerts.
Huey Lewis and the News was the big, was one of the biggest concerts we did under our new promoter, promoter contracts for a town hall.
And that was just, that was incredible.
I mean, just a great, great concert.
It went off without any problems.
And,
That year was just, it seemed like just a bang up year.
All of the committees did well and the few that we, we did end up reducing the number of committees, but I think that even the tough decisions we made
I think the way we made them, the way we handled them, and it was really wonderful, particularly because Jim really did let the student leaders lead and put us in our, I think he challenged us in a couple of occasions where we had to
we had to really work in some cases to deliver not so pleasant news and to make some pretty tough decisions about things and then be able to communicate those to others and even to, I had a real strong
real tough conversation with the two individuals that were leading the Miss Texas A&M pageant and basically said, you've got X number of days to clean up the act.
If not, then my plan is to call the performance review committee and have you all removed from office.
It was
That was tough to do, particularly because they're friends, they were friends, but we had to make it clear to them that all the things that we were hearing about the treatment of the contestants and about all the other things that happened, including their relationship with their staff advisor, was just unacceptable.
And did they make the changes?
Did.
Oh, okay.
And I think it was for the better.
I mean, it was a turnaround.
Their relationship with their advisor turned around.
Their relationship with the contestants turned around.
I think the pageant went off without a hitch.
I think their ability to raise funds, the ability to focus on getting positive things done rather than everything else that was
distracting for them in the organization went away.
Those things went away.
It wasn't completely clean, but I think by far it could have been a disaster for us.
Tim Fitzgibbon, who was the EVP for programs, did I think a great job of keeping those kinds of things on track.
I've always wished, I want to see if I can find an idea, I've always wished that somewhere we had almost an autograph display
of the notable people that have been here, particularly MSC.
Van Clyburn was our first performer in the Rudder Auditorium.
And think of the musicians, the speakers, the pop.
Yeah, I remember also Itzhak Perlman and the, one of the Opus programs, Itzhak Perlman and the St.
Louis Symphony.
Just incredible.
Sure.
And if we somewhere had those signatures and the dates so that you and I as incoming freshmen would see it, my goodness, because I think it would be kind of like a who's who.
Why couldn't we start that somewhere?
Oh, I think that would just be incredible.
still amazed at, even after years of being an MSC-er, still amazed at the quality of the programming that happens.
And I think that would be just tremendous.
You know, it's really interesting when we go on recruiting trips now, and I've been lucky to participate in some of them, and have the MSC talk about, particularly Will Hurd, talk about, you know, some of the programs that they produced, and have students go, wow.
I mean, have those respective, or those recruits go, wow, I can't believe it.
I mean, it's just, it would just be incredible.
And see, Van Claiborne was the first performer, but the first person
to appear on that stage about three nights earlier was Jacques Cousteau.
Oh.
Because we had him scheduled over in the chemistry building and they got through a week early with the MSC.
So we said, well, we'll just move it over and we'll check how everything works.
And it was a, we had it half full at least.
It was a superb evening.
And then I remember Jacques, then when Van Claiborne came, he walked in
and clapped his hands to check the acoustics and said something to the effect that I believe this is the best acoustical hall I've ever performed in.
Things like that.
Now let's see, this is your fifth year and you're majoring in?
I'm majoring in sociology.
Sociology.
And describe during that year a typical day of classes.
Oh gosh, I usually started out my morning at 7.30 in the office, at the student programs office.
And so generally I would, and by then I was, I could do nine o'clock classes.
So I was generally in the office from about 7.30 until about 8.45.
I mean, yeah, about 8.45.
So I'd leave and go to class.
And I was generally gone to class most of the morning, come back.
I would come back at lunch and generally have lunch down in the cafeteria and then have class early afternoon.
But I was generally done by 2.
And so I would go back to the SPO.
and spend from about two to five or two to six in the SPO if there were no meetings, if there were meetings.
The student programs office?
Right, yeah, student programs office and the office there.
And so it was very long days, and if there was a program that night,
I generally would not go home, so I'd bring clothes with me to change to go to the program.
One of the things I did with the leadership group or the executive team is we wanted
We wanted to be visible at not just the major programs.
We all got invitations to Opus and to Wiley, but we wanted to show up at those programs where committee members just didn't expect us to show up.
Not because we wanted to check on it, but we wanted them to know that we had an appreciation
for how hard they had worked on that program.
So we divided up, we spent a lot of time dividing up our list.
In fact, a lot of the things that I had invitations to that maybe the others did not, I would share.
So I asked them to kind of share the load with me, particularly in terms of the public appearances things.
and so we did that and and that that took a lot of time so we were we had lots of programs to go to um i remember spending and i was this was such such good for me so good for me i remember spending
just about a full Saturday with Nova when they do their big war con.
And I was just amazed.
I could not believe.
I mean, you walk into this room and there's this huge, huge,
literally kind of a city or a couple of cities that are built and there's this war going on.
I just, just unbelievable.
I just could not, I never fathom, could fathom that people were that intelligent and would do these incredible things with war games.
And Seven Variables the same kind of way when they did the big Star Trek deal.
And that was just, you know, have all the Trekkies in town.
And I'm a Trekkie.
And so probably not as dedicated as some of the others, but that was really neat.
That was really neat.
All right, now earlier I asked you about typical student dress.
What was typical student dress for the MSC Council President during that year, during the day?
Okay, that changed because I didn't wear jeans as much.
So lots of slacks and lots of polo shirts.
Then some, not very many t-shirts.
Because what would happen a lot of times is,
is if I were in the office, particularly if I had come to the office around lunchtime, and if we had a potential contributor or Jim had a special guest, it was quite often that you'd get asked to lunch to help host somebody.
So I always liked to at least dress a little bit more prepared and wouldn't scare other folks off.
But I generally carried a jacket and a tie with me or a suit with me so that I could change to go to events and stuff.
So the hours became much longer.
Did you have any experiences that you feel comfortable in sharing?
where somebody in a supposed position of authority outside the MSC attempted to tell you what the MSC council ought to be doing or not doing.
Did any board member, legislator, supposedly powerful Aggie,
No, we didn't have that at all.
We began to have the discussions then about the MSC expansion.
And in fact, that was my first opportunity to meet Robert Smith, who was then, I believe he was associate VP.
The student leaders had a pretty good relationship
what I call the big four, the core commander, the student body president, the MSC president, and the RHA president, had a pretty good relationship with the administration, but we also got an opportunity to meet more regularly with the other VPs than did our predecessors.
For instance, I don't think they ever, or they met once with Eddie Joe Davis,
But we met fairly regularly with Eddie Joe Davis, who was the VP for Fiscal Affairs then.
And so as we started talking about the MSC expansion, and as the committee, the user group was getting formed, we formed our own user group in-house.
And so there was a great deal of debate
about the MSC's role in the arts and that, you know, the MSC shouldn't necessarily control the art exhibits on campus.
That really ought to rest with the College of Liberal Arts and hoping that we have a fine arts program.
That's when Mr. Runyon decided to give his gift.
And we were very disappointed that Dr. Vandiver at that time decided to give it to the College of Liberal Arts.
But I now have an appreciation for why he did that.
That would have been the beginning of what he saw as eventually a College of Fine Arts.
And so I can appreciate his reasoning.
So we were disappointed.
I remember though, being in this meeting with Bill McKenzie, John Lindsey, let's see, Jim Reynolds,
And there was someone else in the meeting, and we spent a great deal of time talking about that decision.
The decision had not been made, but how do we build our case for the arts program, particularly that gift, to stay here and for primary responsibility for the gift.
to be given to the MSC.
And we spent a lot of time talking about that in that meeting.
And then they left to go over to talk to President Vandiver at that time about it and came back disappointed that he had made a decision to have liberal arts coordinated.
How did you become queen of John Lindsay?
Let's see.
Through the MSC.
Mr. Lindsay was on the MSC Enrichment Fund Board, which was our fundraising group.
And so I got a chance to meet, in fact, most of the regents.
I also worked for the Board of Regents as a student worker.
During that year?
So that's why I got to know Bill McKenzie.
And Larry Mays, I believe Larry Mays may have been in that meeting also.
I can't remember all of them.
Based on that very modest exposure to the board, which board members do you think at that point were the most influential with their colleagues?
Let's see.
Bill McKenzie, no doubt.
And this would have been my senior year.
Let's see.
Royce Weisenbaker.
He chaired the powerful building and facilities planning and construction committee.
And so the board members really did turn to him a lot.
John Mobley.
John Mobley was very quiet, but I thought his influence came in a different way.
And I believe Larry Mays.
Mr. Mays
He was probably closer to the governor at that point than a lot of the other regents, because that would have been when Mark White was governor.
And that changed when Clements was elected, but that's how I saw it.
As MSC Council President, to whom did you turn for advice?
Jim Reynolds quite often.
Share with us examples of advice he gave you that you now realize was even more important maybe than you did at that time.
Jim would often ask about what classes I was taking in.
He wondered why I was a sociology major.
And I told him I just, I mean, I like the study.
I mean, I just, I like the feel.
But what he did was he wanted me, he tried to encourage me to take some additional business classes.
And he said, you probably ought to take some engineering, a couple of engineering courses too while you can.
And I think because what he wanted to have happen was he thought that some technical skills in a particular area, whether it's accounting or some engineering,
class would have been helpful.
Now, I did not take his advice on the engineering, but I did take his advice on the accounting.
But he wanted me to do much more accounting and finance related things.
I guess he kind of figured that if I had a great desire and had a great passion for it, then I probably ought to bone up.
Well, as it turns out,
I'm in that role now, but what I did was I ended up spending time at one of my jobs as an oil and gas auditor, doing oil and gas auditing.
So fortunately, I got to take some additional kinds of
classes, short courses, and some professional development seminars in that area in accounting and finance.
And so that made the transition to do the auditing work easier, and obviously it's been beneficial to me in my role here now.
So that was good advice.
He gave me also some good advice as we were trying to deal with that big program with the, I could not understand why, for the life of, with the politicians, I could not understand why
we were being criticized, and it angered me that there was this perception out there that this program was handed to us, ready to go, and that the students, so I was angry that the students didn't get credit for the conception, for the planning,
and for the execution that they deserved.
And so that bothered me, and I could not understand that.
And Jim was, you know, kept telling me that, well, just, you can't let that keep you off track.
You can't let it demotivate you.
You can't let it get you down.
Just keep going forward.
We'll keep saying it.
And Bobby, sometimes, no matter how hard and how many folks you tell,
Sometimes the message doesn't ring.
He said, but just give it time.
Just give it time.
And as it turns out, eventually all the criticism went away and the focus on everybody else except for the committees and those students, student leaders who worked so hard, student volunteers who worked so hard on their program, I think people really did a little later on appreciate them.
Now, his predecessor, Wayne Stark, had a technique.
If he thought that things weren't going well and or a student wasn't doing his best, he'd get them, put them on an old green vinyl couch and give them a lecture called Green Couch Treatment.
Right.
Did the current director of the MSC, does he have anything like that?
I don't remember that.
Really, the green couch conversation that I had with Jim was really about as I was trying to decide about being a candidate.
There was a ritual that, even though Mr. Stark was no longer the director, that every MSC president
shortly after being selected, needed to go down and spend a couple hours with him.
And in fact, I did.
He talked about expectations, he cited a lot of examples about
and shared a lot of advice about what he had given other students and how they had taken it or not taken it.
For instance, Henry Cisneros, when he told Henry Cisneros not to go into politics until he made money.
And he said, by God, then Henry just jumped out there and got into politics, and now he's wanting to make some money.
So just those things.
He was also asking me about, that was, he and Jim were the first ones to raise the issue with me of graduate school, graduate school or law school.
Jim was really encouraging me to do law school.
And I just did not want to do law school.
He kept saying, no, you got to talk to people.
You don't have to practice law.
You know, you can do other things with it.
Now hindsight, and Mr. Stark did the same thing.
I probably should have done that when I had the opportunity.
And I just, it just, it just missed me.
So, but, you know,
But nonetheless, I do recognize now the value of an advanced degree and how critical that's going to be for me now.
So that's why I'm, in fact, in graduate school now, working on that.
In what?
In educational administration.
Focus on finance and administration, finance and operations.
And I'm having a good time.
Having a good time.
Another suggestion.
What could you all arrange, you as a former council president and now a key staff member in the MSC, what could you all arrange to bring back to the campus a sampling of former student body presidents,
Corps commanders, MSC Council, and what is it, RHA, to let some of those people from a variety of years share with next year's leaders to say, here's some of the things that we learned.
Now, there's a program that I've been asked to participate in, but it just hasn't worked for my schedule.
And it's, I believe it's called the Former Leaders Conference.
And I think it just hasn't taken off the way they want.
I spoke to them a year ago, or maybe it was almost two years ago, and there was a sampling.
But what I worried about afterward was
Did they get those people together with their current likeness?
Well, I don't think so.
I hesitate to say that they didn't because I didn't participate in the program.
I believe that there was going to be some student leaders there.
Whether they specifically tried to link people would be interesting.
One of the nice things that I had available to me was the other MSC presidents.
And in fact, as part of my executive team and I took a retreat, we went to Navasota.
No, take that back.
We went to Houston.
had dinner with former MSC execs.
We really spent a great deal of time with Greg Hawkins, having him talk to us about, and the other execs talked to us about their experiences.
And then we came back, we went to a production, I'll never forget, we went to see Ain't Misbehavin', Jones Hall, and came back to Navasota.
and we spent the night in navasota at um at the davis ranch roy roy davis and dennis's dennis parents they allowed us to stay up at their ranch uh and and you know worked out i mean good retreat it was a really good retreat but always felt like i could call on on dennis or pat wood and pat wood and our our good friends now
Dennis Davis or Pat Wood to be able to pick up the phone and call them and get advice from them.
Pat put together a little notebook that we called it the MSC President's Bible.
And that notebook talked about
He did a great job of documenting some of his experience, but also saying these are the things that the MSC president needs to know.
And included in there is how do you manage your relationship with the professional staff?
How do you manage your relationship specifically with Jim Reynolds?
How do you manage your relationship with the other student leaders on campus?
How do you manage your relationship with student government?
I mean, all those kinds of things.
It's just really neat thoughts and his ideas.
And so Dennis updated it and passed it on to me.
I updated it and passed it on to Linda Hartman.
In your year as MSC Council President, if we had polled the student body,
Which do you think they would have said is the most important student leadership position on the campus of that big four?
I think they would have said MSC president.
And it may have been personality driven.
Although the student body president would have been either MSC president or student body president,
Yeah, student body president is more visible.
More visible.
But I believe that I was probably more visible, I think I was much more visible than my predecessors were.
And so, you know, student body president and I were always generally together at events.
So I guess it would really depend.
He was also, I think sometimes that really depends on how much of a political animal the student body president is.
Some student body presidents are just not political animals, but Mike was.
Did you have any strong differences of opinion with any of those
other three?
No, it's almost like we became a club, this president's club.
We would often get together for lunch and talk about problems we were having with our student volunteers who were student volunteers.
We team up to fight things or to share our opinions with the administration like we were opposed to
to the president's desire to take the rudder tower, the top floor rudder tower and create the faculty club because we didn't have an appreciation for a faculty club concept and that could have been the biggest part of it.
But we saw him taking a facility away from the students or closing it to the students and giving it just to faculty and we were opposed to that.
There was something that happened that year.
There were incidents of, violence is such a
maybe too inflammatory, but there were incidents of people doing things.
The student body president, I can't remember what his situation was, but someone had mailed, he was getting nasty notes in the mail.
Our off-campus Aggie president was getting nasty notes in the mail over in the student center.
I got nasty notes in the mail.
Somebody came into my office and put cologne or something in my chair.
So we had... What were these notes about?
What was the topic?
I was trying to remember.
I don't remember.
I think it was critical of their positions on things.
But you're giving me the impression they must not have been on the same topic day after day after day or you would have remembered it.
No, no.
It seemed like there was one or two incidents that happened to each one of us, and they all came about the same time, and we shared those.
Now, the only person that was left out of this, no, the Corps commander, had to put up with it.
There were folks who were saying not-so-nice things about the Corps.
the previous year had a very rough, this would have been in 85, 86, had a pretty rough year in the media.
And Garland Wilkinson was determined to not have things that had historically happened, happen again.
And so it was not,
I thought he was, I still think he's one of the greatest Corps commanders because I came to see him as, I really came to see him as a commander in chief.
I think the members of the Corps respected him a great deal.
I also went to him and said, you know, you've got a seat on the council, Garland, I need you to be
a member of the council.
I need you to be a very visible member on campus.
I quite often went to have dinner with the Corps at his invitation.
He was very big about promoting the Corps and the Corps members' involvement in other student organizations, and so that was nice.
That was nice.
But that group of us, we were probably as close as
I guess kind of common experiences and not just the roles brought us all together.
We were, I remember the RHA, off campus Aggies wanted to do a big Mardi Gras deal.
Now it lost a lot of money, but we thought it was wonderful to have Mardi Gras.